A-D
At the peak
Condition implies required.
Data type


Domain-specific vocabulary

E-H
Experimental results

For simplicity

General-purpose
Gain: to control the trade-off between the parallelism gain and
      task-partitioning overhead.

the Hierarchical nature of the original XML data

I-K
Implementation dependent
In detail
In its own right: in itself
In-memory storage/query/representation
In other words
In terms of: regarding sth.; concerning sth.; in relation to sth.
             How far is it in terms of miles?
In (the) light of: according to

L-N
List & Set: List emphasize order, while set is unique for elements.
Main memory
Memory constrained environments.
Memory-efficient: use less memory

Non-volatile

O-Q
Overheads of parallelization

Performance bottleneck
Point-based tree representation
Predicates testing properties of another expression.
Processing capacity

Query performance

R-T

Set
  In mathematics, a set is a well-defined collection of distinct objects,
  considered as an object in its own right. For example, the numbers 2, 4, and
  6 are distinct objects when considered separately, but when they are
  considered collectively they form a single set of size three, written
  {2,4,6}. Sets are one of the most fundamental concepts in mathematics.
  Developed at the end of the 19th century, set theory is now a ubiquitous
  part of mathematics, and can be used as a foundation from which nearly all
  of mathematics can be derived. In mathematics education, elementary topics
  such as Venn diagrams are taught at a young age, while more advanced
  concepts are taught as part of a university degree. The German word Menge,
  rendered as "set" in English, was coined by Bernard Bolzano in his work The
  Paradoxes of the Infinite. Research perspectives

Self-descripting: XML data is self-describing.
Self-explanatory
  Eg. I hope both the examples are quite self explanatory.
Self-contained

Size
  A single set of size three. This is a set sized three.
Source code
  Source code (also referred to as source or code) is the version of software as
it is originally written (i.e., typed into a computer) by a human in plain
text (i.e., human readable alphanumeric characters).

Time-varying
Tag names



# create folders
for ip in `tail -n +2 ec2iplist.txt | head -n $3`
do
    ssh -i $key $user@$ip "mkdir data/$1.xml_$2"
done


U-Z
Without loss of generality
With this in mind
Wall-clock time
    Wall-clock time, or wall time, is the human perception of the
    passage of time from the start to the completion of a task. In the
    context of a task being performed on a computer, wall-clock time
    is a measure of the real time that elapses from start to end,
    including time that passes due to programmed (artificial) delays
    or waiting for resources to become available.
