What is the difference between "exact," "accurate," and "precise" in the
following sentences?
2015-12-30 from quora
Lara was able to tell me everything that had happened in precise detail.
Lara was able to tell me everything that had happened in accurate detail.
Lara was able to tell me everything that had happened in exact detail.

Another simple example is:
one exact clock
one precise clock
one accurate clock

[Answer]
Let's get started form a question:
What is the circumference of a circle divided by its diameter?
(A) 595.37481237481923748192734  (B) 3       (C) 3.1415     (D) pi
Comments:
(A) is very precise, but not at all accurate.
(B) is accurate, but not very precise.
(C) is more precise (as well as more accurate), but not exact.
(D) is exact.

In terms of clocks:
The sun is an accurate clock. You know what time of day it is by where the sun
is in the sky. However, it's difficult to get much precision by just looking at
the sun. I personally can't get much precision at all by trying to read the sun
as a clock: if the sun is up, it's day. If the sun is down, it's night. An
atomic clock would be very precise because its granularity is better than
one-billionth of a second. I'm not sure what an "exact clock" would be.

Back to Laura:
If Laura is giving you accurate details, she's telling you what really happened.
It's likely to be in a matter-of-fact tone, and it doesn't necessarily include
a lot of detail. If she's giving you precise details, she's probably talking a
lot in the process and maybe mentioning uninteresting details as well. If she's
giving you exact details, she might also have a photographic memory. "Exact"
and "precise" would likely include more detail than "accurate". "Accurate" only
implies that all the details are correct.



Robert Frost has given a beautiful explanation. I just want to say the same but
from a different perspective.
Definition of accuracy and precision is taken from wiki:
The [accuracy] of a measurement system is the degree of closeness of
measurements of a quantity to that quantity's actual (true) value.
[Precision] is the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged
conditions show the same results.

Observe the below two images:
(Image 1 shows three darts hit exactly at the same point but far from the
center of the board.)
Precision: In the below image you can see that the darts are hit exactly at
the same point but not the center of the board. It shows good precision but
poor accuracy.


(Image 2 shows three darts hit exactly at the center of the board.)
Exact: In Image 2 you can see that the darts are hit exactly at the center
(accuracy) and all the darts are at the same point (precision).
Accuracy: If all the darts are just around the center of the board but not at
the same point, say spread around a smaller region, then it is accuracy.


From the following URL
https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-exact-accurate-and-precise-in-the-following-sentences
