
       vary  VS  change
temporarily      permanently.
     formal      both
less common      common

"Vary" is slightly different than the others. It has a connotation of changing
temporarily without being changed permanently. To take an example, you can
change your sex (via an operation), but you cannot vary your sex.

If the sentence is intended to mean that the program will temporarily do
something else, then vary is possible. (For example, if the robot alternates
between singing and dancing, then the program might be said to make it vary its
behavior.)

If the sentence is intended to mean that the program will stop doing X and start
doing Y, then change/alter sounds better. I do not feel a strong difference
between these two, but 'change' is the more common word in English.

* Alter
1) Equal to change
2) Change something from one to another usually the other is a replacement of
   the first one.
3) To make a piece of aclothing longer, wider, etc. so that it fits.  


* Differ is used in particular comparisons.
I would say "The weight varies from 4 to 6 kilos," but yes, the verb is correct.
"Vary" and "differ" are similar in meaning, but they're not always
interchangeable.  Tom and Jon differ in many respects. (Here I cannot say
"vary.") The prices of a new microwave vary depending on the brand. ("Differ"
might be acceptable here, but in any case it wouldn't sound as good.) I think
"differ" is used in particular comparisons, whereas "vary" is used to emphasize
difference (variation!) on a broader spectrum.

Vary vs Differ
Specific things vary. (as in measurable things.)
Eg. The pressure of my car tyres varies by exactly 8psi between front & back.
His hair colour is exactly 2 shades lighter than mine.
General things differ. (no precision requirement)
Eg. The two children differ in Temperament.
Though the coloration of the leaves may differ between Winter and Autumn, the
presence of red spots still indicates that it is a sick plant.
Something varies in degrees. Something differs in nouns.
You can use the word differential to be more precise.
Eg. The differential between the front and rear tyres is 8 psi.
