In brief:
- Fundamental and basic are similar meaning words used in different contexts.
- There are basic rules and regulations but there are fundamental differences.
- There are also fundamental laws governing theories and hypothesis.
- Basic accommodation means one with bare minimum amenities.

The two words basic and fundamental in English language have similar meanings
and are very confusing for those who cannot make out the difference between the
two. However, there is a subtle difference between the two words as they are
used in different contexts. This article will attempt to make it clear in the
minds of those who find it hard to choose between basic and fundamental.

Fundamental, primary, basic, elementary and preliminary are some words that are
used almost interchangeably though all are different (somewhat) to each other.

If the police are looking for clues of a suspect, it gets preliminary sketches
of the suspect made by artists. Here, you cannot use either basic or
fundamental. Preliminary suggests that something is in its first stages and
will be developed later. This is why there are preliminary discussions to pave
the ground for meaningful talks later on and not basic or fundamental talks.
One talks about basic amenities and basic accommodation and not fundamental
accommodation. So if a hotel provides bare necessities that are sufficient to
spend time, you would say that the hotel provides basic accommodation. It only
means that the facilities are of simple and ordinary nature and not very
expensive. Similarly you refer to a menu of a restaurant and say that they have
a quite basic menu and not fundamental menu to mean that there is not much
variety in meals to choose from. Basic is also used to describe the rules and
regulations in an organization that are not written and spoken but followed by
all the individuals in the organization.

On the other hand, fundamental is the basis upon which theories are built such
as fundamental laws of motion. Fundamental refers to the most basic concepts
upon which an entire edifice is standing. When you talk about two political
parties with opposing views, you say there is a fundamental difference in the
outlook of the two parties.
