What is the difference between comment and review?
2015-12-31
[Question] 
I can't understand the difference meaning of the "review" and the "comment" ? Sometimes they seem to equal, you can substitute for them each other optionally, but sometimes you can't. But I don't know when is the sometime? Thank you for the help in advanced.

PS: Is there any problems of grammar in my question?


[Answer1]
I can't understand the difference in meaning between "review" and "comment". Sometimes they seem to mean the same, you can substitute them for each other optionally, but sometimes you can't. But I don't know when the "sometime" is? Thank you for the help in advance.

Review
This suggests a more general and thorough check and assessment. If your boss asks you to review something, you'd better look at it carefully. He/she may blame you for any errors or problems that you miss if they are later found by someone else.

Comment
This suggests a less thorough look is required. If your boss asks you if you have any comments on something, he/she may not expect many comments, or indeed any comment at all. It doesn't sound like he expects you to check it carefully.


[Answer2]
A review is a public comment that recommends whether or not to buy/watch/read/etc. that thing.

A review grades something as good or bad. Reviews exist to give advice on what you should spend your time eating, watching, reading, etc.

Comments are more general.

If you're writing a book, your editor will give you comments on your drafts so that you can improve it. After the book is published, critics will write reviews for newspapers and websites, and anyone can make comments about it to their friends (or they could send their comments to you).

[Answer3]
Let me start with how I read reviews and work backward to an answer.

When I read a review of a movie (or book or new piece of music, ...), I'm not primarily concerned with how many stars the reviewer awards.  I'm interested in finding out about the movie.  I look for why the reviewer liked it (or didn't).  Maybe the reviewer loves the movie because it set a new record for number of cars blown up - only I'm not really interested in explosions.  Or the reviewer hated the movie because the ending was ambiguous - only I'm comfortable with ambiguity.  So, it's the details that I use to decide whether to see the movie or not.

As I use the term, /a review/ is a detailed description (sometimes longer, sometimes shorter).  It may also try to put the movie in some historical context ("just like the previous Indiana Jones movie but with a cuter sidekick").  Reviews are generally somewhat formal and, public, and therefore careful.  A numerical rating may or may not be used to quantify quality.

Again, as I use the term, /a comment/ is a shorter, more personal, more limited expression of fact ("they set the chess board up wrong") or opinion ("Way cool, man!").  

Of course, there's a lot of overlap.  To me, a review that just has some number of stars and no additional detail is a comment, even if it's published in a national magazine.  And look at the Comments on Quora.  Most address one point in the Answer.  Some address the facts ("Equation 1 can't be right because the dimensions on the left side are different from those on the right.")  Some are raw statements of opinion ("You're trying to wreck the United States").  But some extend the original Answer with additional information ("See this Wikipedia article").  And some Comments are longer than the original Answer.  

So, when someone you don't know well mentions a comment or a review, you may have to look to tell how much information or what kind of information it contains.


