2016-07-13 WH

What I learned about how to make a good presentation from today's meeting:

- Correctness
The first important requirement is to be correct. All of the presentations today
were almost perfectly correct. One deep impression is that when Morihata-sensei
noticed that there was jsut a very small underline under a ""g"" in a slide,
he immediately explained that was a typo irrelevant to the topic , showing his
concern not to distract audience.

- Confident
I like Emoto-sensei and Morihata-sensei's presentations. Because they greatly
showed their confidence in the presentations. Although Emoto-sensei did not get
expected results, he clearly showed what happened to hinder him from obtaining
the expected results through an short, yet very interesting and attractive
story. Morihata-sensei's presentation was also quite confident and I like his
presentation most. His explanation was always step by step and thus made his
explanation very clear. I think the basis of being confident bases the deep
understanding of the topic. That means we should fully understand all the
aspects of the topic so that we can give all the detailed aspects of the topic
Today, all the speakers could answer the questions quickly, also showing their
deep and correct understanding to their presentations.

- Punctuality
This is also a basic principle we should follow. We should notice the time
arrangement (presentation time and discussion time) to arrange the time as
expected. Also we need to consider the time taken for some interruptions.

- Logic
Zhang and Morihata-sensei’s presentations were very logical. For example, Zhang
first proposed the problems of restricted communication between neighbors and
some redundant communications, etc. Then he proposed the solution and discuss
the solution step by step with examples. So was the Morihata’s presentation.
To make presentations to be more logical, I believe the following patterns
should be followed:
1) Provide enough information to the background;
2) Clearly state the problems, i.e. motivation;
3) Show your solution with examples. In some case solutions may be a bit
complicated, such as Morihata-sensei’s talk, we should introduce the solution
step by step.)
4) Comparisons with appropriate rivals can show the goodness of your solution.

Now let me summarize what I learned about how to make a good presentation,
which may also be my weak points for now:
1)  Get a deep enough understanding of your topic.
2)  Make correct and logical slides.
3)  Be confident to present and explain everything step by step.
4)  Quickly answer questions.
5)  Control the time to be punctual.
Last, I'll try to ask questions from now on in all the presentations.
