shrewd
shrewd (ʃruːd) adj.
Also found in: Thesaurus, Legal, Wikipedia.
Related to shrewd: shrewdly
shrewd  (shro͞od)
adj. shrewd·er, shrewd·est
1. Having or showing a clever awareness or resourcefulness, especially in
   practical matters.
2. Disposed to or marked by artful and cunning practices; tricky.
3. Archaic Sharp; penetrating: a shrewd wind.

[Middle English shrewed, wicked, from shrew, rascal; see shrew.]
shrewd′ly adv.
shrewd′ness n.
Synonyms: shrewd, sagacious, astute, perspicacious

These adjectives mean having or showing keen awareness, sound judgment, and
often resourcefulness, especially in practical matters. Shrewd suggests a sharp
intelligence, hardheadedness, and often an intuitive grasp of practical
considerations: "He was too shrewd to go along with them upon a road which could
lead only to their overthrow" (J.A. Froude). Sagacious connotes prudence,
discernment, and farsightedness: "He was observant and thoughtful, and given to
asking sagacious questions" (John Galt). Astute suggests shrewdness, especially
with regard to one's own interests: An astute tenant always reads the small
print in a lease. Perspicacious implies penetration and clear-sightedness: She
is much too perspicacious to be taken in by such a spurious argument. American
Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Copyright © 2016 by
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved.

1. astute and penetrating, often with regard to business
2. artful and crafty: a shrewd politician.
3. obsolete
a. piercing: a shrewd wind.
b. spiteful
[C14: from shrew (obsolete vb) to curse, from shrew]
ˈshrewdly adv
ˈshrewdness n
Collins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 2014 ©
HarperCollins Publishers 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2011,
2014


adj. -er, -est.
1. astute or sharp in practical matters: a shrewd politician.
2. keen; piercing.
3. artful; marked by cleverness, perceptiveness, etc.: a shrewd choice.
4. Archaic. malicious.
5. Obs. bad.
6. Obs. shrewish.
[1275–1325; Middle English shrewed; see shrew1, -ed3]
shrewd′ly, adv.
shrewd′ness, n.
Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary, © 2010 K Dictionaries Ltd.
Copyright 2005, 1997, 1991 by Random House, Inc. All rights reserved.
ThesaurusAntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend:
Switch to new thesaurus
Adj.	1.	shrewd - marked by practical hardheaded intelligenceshrewd - marked by
practical hardheaded intelligence; "a smart businessman"; "an astute tenant
always reads the small print in a lease"; "he was too shrewd to go along with
them on a road that could lead only to their overthrow"
astute, sharp
smart - showing mental alertness and calculation and resourcefulness
2.	shrewd - used of personsshrewd - used of persons; "the most calculating and
selfish men in the community"
calculating, calculative, scheming, conniving
hard - dispassionate; "took a hard look"; "a hard bargainer";
