dilemma
/dəˈlemə, daɪ-/

From Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English
di‧lem‧ma /dəˈlemə, daɪ-/ ●●○ noun [countable]
a situation in which it is very difficult to decide what to do, because all the
choices seem equally good or equally bad

a moral dilemma
in a dilemma
  I’m in a dilemma about this job offer.
  This placed Robert Kennedy in a dilemma.
  Many women are faced with the dilemma of choosing between work and family
  commitments.
→ be on the horns of a dilemma at horn1(6)
COLLOCATIONS
VERBS
be in a dilemma
After years of recession, the company was in a dilemma over its future.
face a dilemma/be faced with a dilemma
Women may still be faced with the dilemma of choosing between jobs and families.
pose/create a dilemma
The difficult economic situation poses a dilemma for investors.
put/place somebody in a dilemma
His divided loyalties placed him in a dilemma.
resolve/solve a dilemma
People often need help with resolving their dilemmas.
explain your dilemma (=talk about it)
He explained his dilemma to me.
ADJECTIVES
a difficult/serious dilemma
He was in a serious dilemma because neither option seemed very desirable.
a terrible dilemma
She was in a terrible dilemma because she loved both men.
a moral/ethical/political etc dilemma
Doctors face a moral dilemma over how long to prolong someone's life.
a personal dilemma
The men who were on strike faced a personal dilemma over whether to return to
work.
a painful dilemma (=a very difficult one)
She faced the painful dilemma of having to decide whether to tell the police
about her son's crimes.
a common/familiar dilemma (=one that a lot of people have)
Deciding whether to put an elderly parent in a nursing home is a common dilemma.
the central dilemma (=the main one)
The prime minister's central dilemma was whether war was justified.

PHRASES
a way out of a dilemma (=a way to solve it)
There seemed to be no way out of the dilemma.
a solution to a dilemma (=a way to solve it)
One possible solution to the dilemma may be to divide the money equally between
the brothers.
Examples from the Corpus

• With a child on each opposing team, Dad was faced with a dilemma: which
supporters should he sit with?

• It is a common dilemma: Should you stay where you have friends and family, or
take that good job in a far-away city?

• Writers are debating the ethical dilemma raised by the parents who did not
want their Siamese twins separated.

• The first dilemma has been discussed: the managers gradually learned that
their subordinates varied extensively in skill and motivation.

• Snipes gives a brilliant performance as a man caught in a moral dilemma.

• This happens when the employee learns to escape the personal dilemma
temporarily by devoting more effort to his or her job.

• But last week's global stock market slump underscores the cartel's dilemma.

• I explained the dilemma to a friend.

• Many single parents struggle with the dilemma of dividing time between work
and children.

• Peace campaigners in the 1980s, and animal-rights and environmental groups in
the 1990s, faced this dilemma.

• Another unforeseen dilemma which now surfaced was how to satisfy the demands
of the new customers for winter-weight, or seasonal clothes. faced with ...
dilemma

• Governments, which are purchasers, are faced with the dilemma of safeguarding
the benefits while containing the price of drugs.
