You Need Go Back School To Relearn English
By Lennox Morrison, 16 December 2016
http://www.bbc.com/capital/story/20161215-you-need-to-go-back-to-school-to-relearn-english

With non-native English speakers outnumbering native speakers, it’s up to
Anglophones to learn how to speak their language within a global community.

Until seven years ago, Chicago-born Ben Barron had worked only with fellow
Americans. But when he took a job with Zurich Insurance Company, an
international company headquartered in Switzerland, Barron found that his new
colleagues across Europe, who used English as a shared language, had difficulty
understanding him.

“Fortunately I was surrounded by people who would stop and say things like, ‘So
what do you mean by that?’ and make me clarify,” he recalls. “So I started to
become aware of some of my own verbal communication habits that might lead to
misunderstandings.”

After taking an in-company e-learning course to help native English speakers
communicate better with non-native speakers, Barron slowed down his pace of
speaking and edited his “American speak” to avoid jargon and idioms that don’t
translate globally.

“That e-learning exposed me to the thought that maybe people could not process
my verbal information as quickly as I thought they were,” says Barron, who is
now the company’s senior learning and development consultant for international
operations, in Schaumberg, Illinois.

“Another takeaway was avoiding the use of sayings,” he says. “For example, a
saying like ‘That dog don’t hunt’ which means ‘That’s probably not that good of
an idea’. That’s a very southern American saying that people didn’t understand.”

He also filtered out references to baseball and football and changed his writing
style. Instead of contractions like ‘can’t’, ‘don’t’ and ‘doesn’t’, he writes
the phrases out in full.

Barron is one of a small but growing number of native English speakers
recalibrating how he uses his mother tongue.

Turning the tables

With non-native English speakers now vastly outnumbering native speakers, it’s
up to the latter to be more adaptable, says Neil Shaw, intercultural fluency
lead at the British Council, the UK’s international educational and cultural
body. About 1.75 billion people worldwide speak English at a useful level, and
by 2020 it’s expected to be two billion, according to the British Council.

 It’s a bit of a revelation to many of them that their English isn’t as clear
 and effective as they think it is In the Council’s new intercultural fluency
 courses launched in September, native English speakers in countries from
 Singapore to South Africa have been prompted to rethink how they communicate.
 “It’s a bit of a revelation to many of them that their English isn’t as clear
 and effective as they think it is,” Shaw says.

 Increasingly, English is being used as a lingua franca. “It’s not an exotic
 thing anymore to be working in a global, virtual team,” says Robert Gibson, an
 intercultural consultant based in Munich, Germany. “It’s everyday life for many
 people and it’s quite stressful and difficult.”

It can be a culture shock for native speakers to encounter new varieties of
English. “The English language is changing quite radically,” says Gibson. “The
trend is not to have one or two clear standard Englishes like American English
and British English, but to have a lot of different types of English.”

The trend is not to have one or two clear standard Englishes like American
English and British English, but to have a lot of different types of English

Chinese English, known as chinglish, and German English, called denglish, are
examples, he says. “English is also developing within organisations. In
companies, they have their own style of English which is not necessarily
understood by native speakers. We are getting away from saying that there is a
standard English you need to conform to [towards] saying that there are
different standards of English for different situations.”

A native-speaker disadvantage

Mother-tongue English may not even be an advantage anymore, says Dr Dominic
Watt, sociolinguistics expert at the University of York in the UK.

It’s the native speakers who are the odd ones out

“It’s not necessarily in your interests to be a native speaker of English
because you haven’t had to go through the same learning process that the
non-natives have. So they’re all on the same page and it’s the native speakers
who are the odd ones out,” Watt says.

At the European Parliament, for instance, non-native speakers complain to the
Anglophones, “Can’t you just speak English like the rest of us do!”, says Watt.
“The power balance has shifted a bit by sheer virtue of numbers.”

Gradually, native speakers are realising that something is going wrong with the
way they’re communicating, says Cathy Wellings, director of the London School of
International Communication in the UK.

“People are presenting to a non-native speaker audience and they realise that it
isn’t going across as well as at home, or they’re great negotiators at home but
they don’t end up winning the deals when they take it overseas,” she says.

Monolingual English speakers have no insight into the challenges faced by
non-native speakers. “One of the things I always reinforce with native speakers
is that the cognitive load of operating in another language is high, it’s tough
and tiring, so if we native speakers can help them out it’s going to make it
easier,” Wellings adds.

When it comes to English grammar, learners often outshine native speakers. “In
written business communication courses with mixed groups, the Brits can be quite
sheepish that they don’t know the grammar that non-native speakers do,” she
says.

Slow down and shut up

The most useful change native speakers can make is to slow down their speech,
says Bob Dignen, director and owner of UK-based York Associates, the
international communications training provider that created Zurich Insurance’s
e-learning course, English for the Native Speaker.

Native speakers on average speak 250 words per minute, while the average
intermediate non-native speaker is comfortable with around 150 words per minute
Native speakers on average speak 250 words per minute, while the average
intermediate non-native speaker is comfortable with around 150 words per minute,
Dignen explains. “To speak at a slower speed is a behavioural competence that
can take six to 12 months to master. Actors learn these skills — to control
speech, increase the length of pause,” says Dignen. “You can kind of train by
just recording yourself on a mobile phone as you speak to somebody and then play
that back and try to control your speech until you’re speaking at 150 words per
minute.”

Articulation is also important, he says. “Instead of ‘I will’ we tend to say
‘I’ll’ and then in fast speech we don’t even say that we say ‘ull’. Begin to
non-contract and say ‘I will’ and ‘I am’ rather than ‘I’ll’ and ‘I’m’ and you
can make yourself more intelligible.”

Monolinguals tend to use a communication style that leads “unwittingly to the
marginalisation of the non-native speaker in conversation,” he says. “It leads
to dominance in terms of talking time with the monolingual speaking more than
the non-native speaker.”

“Shutting up and asking more questions is what I counsel native speakers to do.
It makes a huge, huge difference.” To comment on this story or anything else you
have seen on BBC Capital, head over to our Facebook page or tweet us on Twitter.
