Severn Ways To Be More Efficient At Work

1.Prioritize your day in advance
Prioritize the night before, not first thing in the morning. Expect the
unexpected throughout the workday — something is bound to come up and throw you
off — but as a rule, try to organize yourself before you take off for dinner.
Think about the important tasks you have to take care of, any potential calls or
meetings you have to prepare for and correspondences you have to complete. List
them in order of priority and make the list accessible, either on a sheet of
paper, in your PDA or in your computer. Do the same thing for your week and
month as well. Designate 15 minutes at the end of every Friday to look ahead to
the next week and compile a comprehensive task action plan. On a similar note,
at the end of the month, take a broad look at the next 30 days and compose a
list of professional goals. Sound organization will streamline your job and
provide strong motivation to work hard. Remember; people never plan to fail,
they just fail to plan.

2.Set deadlines
In the same vein as your new commitment to prioritize, set deadlines for your
tasks. Ambitious, but realistic deadlines. If you leave the completion of your
tasks open and subject to interpretation, they may never get done. Even if
management is not on your back and the company is in a mode of complacency, set
an example with hardcore deadlines. If you work in a team, push them to adhere
to a schedule. Every company has red tape and bureaucracy to suppress launch
dates for projects but nonetheless, it is advisable to do your part and not
become part of the problem.

3.Organize your workspace
Clutter and piles of paperwork can have a major negative impact on your
productivity. Despite the obvious benefits of a clean work area, few take the
time to file and organize. I suggest you get on it, pronto . Take an hour at the
end of the day to find a place for important items. File them away in a space
that is easy to access and remember. If you happen to be a pack rat, break that
bad habit by tossing out items and recycling papers you no longer use. Go by the
one month rule: If more than 30 days has gone by since your last use of the
paper or file in question, purge it from your space. It may be painful but trust
me; it is well worth the effort.

4.Upgrade your technology
For some people, more gadgets are akin to more stress. But if you use them with
the proper intent and under necessary circumstances, they can be of huge benefit
to your workday. A better, faster computer, a new mobile phone and of course, a
personal digital assistant, can save time and empower you as an employee. Just
make your company understand the long-term benefits of such devices before you
ask them to make the investment for you. Keep in mind as well that technology is
only a time saver when you harness it for the proper intent and at the suitable
time.

5.Save personal affairs for your
own time We seldom realize the ripple effect that the occasional personal call
can have on our day. The impact can be quite detrimental, when you consider the
constant interruptions they cause as we try to complete a major task or project.
As a result, the best advice is to save personal correspondences and matters for
your lunch hour. Think of lunch as a time to scarf down a quick meal and take
care of personal business. Be vigilant about it and your work will get done a
lot faster.

6.Thought-intensive in the a.m., labor-intensive in the p.m.
Most of us are sharper before lunch, so the advice here is to be done with tasks
that emphasize deep analysis and thought without delay. If you have to crunch
numbers or write an extensive report, get on with it the moment you sit down at
your desk. On the other side of the coin, schedule meetings and conference calls
in the afternoon. This is the best time for most of us to interact and share
ideas with others. So save the morning for tasks that demand intense examination
and scrutiny. Leave the post-lunch hours for less thought-intensive chores.

7.Delegate
You may not have a team of people to manage and delegate to but regardless, it
is vital to maximize the potential of your colleagues to better perform your
job. Take a look at your tasks and find out where your peers can be of use.
Self-delegation is important as well. To save yourself time, meet with
management on a regular basis to get a clear picture of what your tasks are,
what they entail and how best you can execute them. Empower yourself with this
knowledge; it will serve you well as you go about your workday and will help you
set an agenda. And remember, there are no stupid questions, except for the ones
not asked. more easy tips

These are some of the major actions you can take to increase your personal
productivity on the job. There are other small shortcuts, of course, that I
recommend:
* Screen your calls
* Use e-mail to correspond (but keep messages short and to the point)
* When your plate is full, minimize interruptions and
  let people know that you need privacy
* Set an agenda and timeline for company meetings
* Implement these tips and your efficiency at work is bound to rise. So what are
you waiting for?
