Watching a football match at a friend's house
https://www.italki.com/notebook/3659228/entry/772916

Me: Do you have the idea of offering a dessert with everyone?
Me: Do you like the idea of offering a dessert to everyone?
Evan: We'll feel completely at home. So go to work doing own dessert
Evan: We'll feel completely at home. So we can go to work making our own desserts
Me: Well, I'll get some foods in the market nearly.
Me: Well, I'll get some foods from the market nearby.
Nicole: Linh, Evan's kidding fucking you. It's full of foods in her fridge
Nicole: Linh, Evan's fucking kidding you. Her fridge is full of food.
Evan: Internet's too lag. I want the lives match to run as smoothly as possible. who'll help me resolve it?
Evan: The internet's is too long. I want the live matches to run as smoothly as possible. Who'll help me fix this problem?
Nicole: Evan, write to the ISP about this. We can't pay annual fee to enjoy that bad stuff.
Nicole: Evan, write to the ISP about this. We shouldn't pay an annual fee for this bad stuff.
Me: Easy! easy! Wait a moment to consider how is it? 
Me: Easy! Easy! Wait a moment to consider how it is.
Me: OK! It 's smooth.
Me: OK! It 's smooth.
Evan: MU lost Mata, Carrick. It has a zero chance to win. 
Evan: MU lost to Malta, Carrick. It has a zero chance to win.
Nicole: Wayne Rooney'll give vigour to the rest. Believe me. 
Nicole: Wayne Rooney'll give vigour to the rest. Believe me.
Evan: you're too optimistic, Nicole. Rooney's only a nice old man. He hadn't enough strong inside him to rescue MU. Arsenal is the greatest!
Evan: you're too optimistic, Nicole. Rooney's only a nice old man. He hasn't enough strength inside him to rescue MU. Arsenal is the greatest!
Me: He is the only one who MU fan can believe in.
Me: He is the only one who MU fan can believe in.
Nicole: And ten men more.
Nicole: And ten men more.
Evan: Guess what
Evan: Guess what?
Me: See!
Me: See!
Evan: which team do you like?
Evan: which team do you like?
Me: I am sorry for not being straight with you. I'm Arsenal's fan.
Me: I am sorry for not being straight with you. I'm an Arsenal fan.
Evan: Fuck you, Linh
Evan: Fuck you, Linh
Nicole: We can insult each other but just to do it in a funny way.
Nicole: We can insult each other but just do it in a funny way.
Me: Yeah, It doesn't have to turn into a fight.
Me: Yeah, It doesn't have to turn into a fight.
Evan: Arsenal has got worst defenders who I've seen.
Evan: Arsenal has got the worst defenders that I've ever seen.
Nicole: See! Fletcher made a mistake. Why wouldn't have a yellow card for him?
Nicole: See! Fletcher made a mistake. Why don't they give him a yellow card?
Evan: That was only a light crash.
Evan: That was only a light skirmish.
Nicole: Evan, this foul was a huge violation. I now see the point in bribing FA. 
Nicole: Evan, this foul was a huge violation. I now see the point in bribing the FA.
Evan: No, Flecher did it right away.
Evan: No, Flecher did it right away.
Me: This is just fairness.
Me: That is only fair.
Nicole: Linh, don't jump the line
Nicole: Linh, don't jump the line
Me: I only said MU, so it doesn't apply to you
Me: I only said MU, so it doesn't apply to you
Evan: Wow, Goal! Goal! Goal! Sanchez's the greatest!
Evan: Wow, Goal! Goal! Goal! Sanchez is the greatest!
Me: Goal! Wonderful!
Me: Goal! Wonderful!
Nicole: Sanchez was offside. The referee was so dumb.
Nicole: Sanchez was offside. The referee was so dumb.
Me: This situation is too complex to reduce. 
Me: This situation is too complex to analyse.
Evan: It's obviously a great goal. It'll even be the best goal of the round.
Evan: It's obviously a great goal. It'll even be the best goal of the round.
Nicole: What are you pointing at?
Nicole: What are you pointing at?
Evan: It's like this goal was shot by God. Ball seemed to go out the goal.
Evan: It's like this goal was shot by God, Himself. The ball did go into the goal.
Me: I think you put Nicole through enough, Evan.
Me: I think you have put Nicole through enough, Evan.
Nicole: Mourinho'll figure out how to get MU stronger.
Nicole: Mourinho'll figure out how to make MU stronger.
Evan: It's nothing but easy.
Evan: It's easy.
Nicole: Ibrahimovic! Shot! Shot! Oh shit!
Nicole: Ibrahimovic! Shoot! Shoot! Oh shit!
Evan: I won't embarrass you
Evan: I won't embarrass you
Me: Stops! Evan. This's only Arsenal's stadium.
Me: Stop! Evan. This is only Arsenal's stadium.
