
On 2016/05/12 10:57, ICPP-2016 wrote:
Dear Kiminori:

We regret to inform you that the following paper has not been accepted
at the International Conference on Parallel Processing (ICPP), 2016,
to be held in Philadelphia, Aug 16-19, 2016. Title: A Preﬁx-Based
Indexing Approach for XPath Query over Partial Trees We received a
large number of submissions (251) this year and the competition was
tough. Due to space restrictions we could only accept 53 regular
papers (21.1%) and 19 short papers (7.6%). The papers went through a
thorough review process, online discussions and TPC meeting. The
reviews for your paper are attached with this email. We hope that the
reviews will be useful for improving your paper for a future
submission While it is unfortunate that your paper could not be
accepted for the main conference, you still have the option of being
considered for publication in a variety of workshops being hosted by
ICPP (http://icpp2016.cs.wcupa.edu/workshops.html).  All ICPP workshop
papers will be submitted to IEEE Xplore digital library, which is EI
indexed. If you would like your paper to be considered for publication
by any of these workshops, please send an email to Pavan Balaji
(balaji@anl.gov) and Anne Benoit (Anne.Benoit@ens-lyon.fr) by:
                  ****** MAY 14, 2016 ******
Please indicate which workshops, in the order of priority, that you 
would like your paper to be considered for.  Your paper and its 
reviews will be forwarded to each workshop, in the order of priority, 
till either a workshop picks the paper or all the options you picked 
are exhausted. Consequently, providing us more options (at least 3) 
will make this task easier and your chances of acceptance higher.  
The paper forwarding process is separate from the general paper 
submission process that each workshop has gone through.  Thus, you 
can pick a workshop even if its submission deadline has passed.  
If you have any questions on this process, please email Pavan Balaji 
(balaji@anl.gov) and Anne Benoit (Anne.Benoit@ens-lyon.fr).

A few things to note:
1. If you want your paper to be considered at workshops, your
conference submission and reviews will be forwarded to the workshops.
Thus, the workshop chairs, organizers and workshop committee members
will have access to those reviews.
2. The above mentioned forwarding process includes forwarding the
paper reviews as well.  Consequently, you would be notified of whether
your paper has been accepted to any of the workshops fairly soon
(approximately a week or so).

Best Regards,
Krishna Kant, Temple University
Hong Jiang, UT/Arlington

----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 39
TITLE: A Preﬁx-Based Indexing Approach for XPath Query over Partial Trees
AUTHORS: Wei Hao and Kiminori Matsuzaki
OVERALL EVALUATION: -2 (reject)
----------- Review -----------
In this paper, the problem of processing X-path queries on large XML
documents is considered. I must admit that I am not an expert in this
domain. Nevertheless, the authors claim that most studies still focus
on sequential and shared memory approaches, whereas a simple query to
xpath mapreduce descendant following preceding proves that the
situation is more complex. In general, I consider that the comparison
with state of the art is insufficient, even more in the context of a
conference for non-specialists. For instance, a comparison with
reference [12] could be provided, to assess the specificities of the
approach. Even more, reference [9] by the same authors introduces
partial tree partitioning and has a very similar structure (same
outline) and presents results for the same kind of queries obtained on
exactly the same computing platform. The present paper brings new
contribution since it introduces 2 new indexing algorithm, but the
lack of (experimental or complexity)  comparison with [9] makes that
it is impossible to assess the practical importance of present
contribution and can hardly be understood (same authors, same
platform). At last, in terms of scope, the paper looks borderline to
me for ICPP, both in terms of parallel algorithms (complexity
analysis, performance evaluation) and in terms of scalability (|eq 16
processors).

----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 39
TITLE: A Preﬁx-Based Indexing Approach for XPath Query over Partial Trees
AUTHORS: Wei Hao and Kiminori Matsuzaki
OVERALL EVALUATION: -2 (reject)
----------- Review -----------
This paper presents a method for answering Xpath queries on large XML
trees. They propose to split the tree into several chunks (to be sent
on different processors) and to work with both local prefix indices
and global prefix indices of the nodes to answer all queries. After
presenting the algorithms, the authors exhibit some performance
results on 16 processors.
The main drawbacks of the paper is its poor organization and writing:
- The introduction/preliminaries sections contain no motivation for
the current work nor reference to similar research. Besides, these
sections provide very little information on Xpath and the type of
queries they are looking to answer. Finally, the use of parallel
execution is only implicit in a large part of the paper.
- Generally, the article is not very clear, lacks explanation on the
methods before jumping to the algorithm descriptions, uses confusing
and changing notations, and contains many small mistakes that hinders
its understanding.
- No proof of correctness of the algorithms is provided.
The experimental section also lacks serious competitors (what is the
"original" algorithm?) from the related work. Figures 18 to 20 do not
even mention which algorithm is tested.
Minor remarks:
****************
- In the description of Algorithm 1 (Section III.C): "in each loop, we
add all the left-open nodes...", replace left-open by right-open
- austList instead of auxList (same place)
- st_p and prepaths[p] should refer to p+1 rather than p (same place)
- Algorithm 2 (ComputeLIndex) is a simple pre-order traversal and
could be removed.
- What is pts in Algorithm 3?
- Left-open node sets are referred both as llos and lefts, it would be
better to choose a single notation.
- In Section IV.C, it is unclear how missing U-indices are assigned
after sharing (the algorithm is missing).
- On Figure 16.b, to what "percentage" refer the Y axis ?
----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 39
TITLE: A Preﬁx-Based Indexing Approach for XPath Query over Partial Trees
AUTHORS: Wei Hao and Kiminori Matsuzaki
OVERALL EVALUATION: -1 (weak reject)
----------- Review -----------
The paper concerns a novel technique for parsing and querying
gigabyte-level XML documents. It works based upon a special purpose
data structure previously proposed by the authors. The author's
research contributions include two indexing algorithms for partial
trees, optimization techniques for descendant, following, and
preceding axes, and experiments demonstrating the efficacy of their
algorithms on up to 17.8 GB of XML data. The authors exploit the
natural tree-like structure of XML documents to perform their parallel
processing. But to the extent that the authors exploit a tree
structure to achieve a speedup using parallel processing, they have
not introduced any new techniques. Most of their parallelism comes
from performing queries over disjoint structures in parallel, which is
rather straightforward. To this reviewer's understanding, the only
novelty in this paper arises from the application of parallelism to
over this new data structure. The meat of the paper is concerned with
the details of the special-purpose partial trees constructed for XML
parsing. While these details may be of interest to an XML specialist,
this reviewer doubts their appeal to researchers in parallel
processing. Rather than focusing on the intricate details of their
data structure, a high-level overview illustrating the use of new
parallel techniques would have gone further to impress this reviewer.
To increase the paper's appeal, perhaps additional applications could
be found, or the methods involved could be generalized to a more
general indexing/querying strategy. The authors compare their indexing
and grouping approaches to a scheme with no indexing or grouping. It
does not appear that the experiments attempted to show that the
techniques described outperform other indexing/querying techniques.
The authors indicate that no other parallel techniques are available
for these kind of queries. While the authors do mention that other
authors have parallelized these processes before using different
models. Including an analysis of how these models compare to the one
given in the paper would yield a much stronger paper.
----------------------- REVIEW 4 ---------------------
PAPER: 39
TITLE: A Preﬁx-Based Indexing Approach for XPath Query over Partial Trees
AUTHORS: Wei Hao and Kiminori Matsuzaki
OVERALL EVALUATION: -1 (weak reject)
----------- Review -----------
The paper presents an algorithm for processing XPath queries on a
distributed environment. The work is based on author’s earlier work on
Partial Trees. The paper presents experimental results on varying size
of XMLs and up to 16 nodes. However structure of XMLs doesn’t change
much; all four had same max depth 13. It would be interesting to see
the results on different structures. My major concern with this paper
is that it doesn’t present any comparison against existing parallel
XML processing systems. They are listed in the related work but there
is no comparison, nor they articulated that why there is no
comparison. So therefore it is really not clear if this work really
improves the state of the art in distributed XML processing.



