Active and Passive Sentences
http://www.primaryresources.co.uk/english/active.htm

A sentence is written in active voice when the subject of the sentence performs
the action in the sentence.
e.g. The girl was washing the dog.

A sentence is written in passive voice when the subject of the sentence has an
action done to it by someone or something else.
e.g. The dog was being washed by the girl.

key words:
  + active voice
  + passive voice
  + perform/carry out an action
  + subject & object


Task One
Copy out each of these sentences and then write whether it is in active or
passive voice. (Hint: In these sentences look for the person who is carrying out
the action).

Mark was eating an apple. (A)
The picture was painted by Bob. (P)
Tina opened the present. (A)
The phone was being used by Mr Thomas. (P)
The card was made by Fred. (P)
James hit the tree with his stick. (A)
The man jumped off the step. (A)
Daniel was watching the birds.  (A)


Task Two
Copy out each of these sentences and then write whether it is in active or
passive voice.

The key was used to open the door. (P)
The crisp packet was thrown away. (P)
James couldn’t see the man.
The boy picked up the coin.
The egg was laid by the bird. (P)
Susan found her car keys.
The policeman chased after Fred.
The car was fixed. (P)
The pencil had been lost. (P)
Mark was given a warning. (P)

Task Three

These are all written in passive voice. Change each sentence into active voice.

The football was kicked by Luke. - Luke kicked the football.
The knife was left on the table by Julie. - Julie left the knife on the table.
The milk had been knocked over by a cat. - A cat knoked over the milk.
The car had been driven into a wall by a naughty child.
  - A naughty child drovethe care into a wall.
The windows had been washed. - Someone had washed the windows.

These are all written in active voice. Change each sentence into passive voice.

The actors had performed the play by Shakespeare.
A stone smashed the window. - The windows was smashed by a stone.
The boys pushed the tree over. - The tree was pushed over by the boys.
James climbed the ladder. - The ladder was climbed by James.
Sam baked a big cake. - A big cake was baked by Sam.
Fred told Johnny a lie. - Johnny was told a lie by Fred.


Find examples of sentences written in passive voice in your reading book and the
books in the class library. Can you change each of the sentences into active
voice?
