Part of Speech Overview [1]

In the English language, words can be considered as the smallest elements that
have distinctive meanings. Based on their use and functions, words are
categorized into several types or parts of speech. This article will offer
definitions and examples for the 8 major parts of speech in English grammar:
noun, pronoun, verb, adverb, adjective, conjunction, preposition, and
interjection.

Here is an example about how to ask a question about the part of speech:
Q: What [Part of Speech] is (the word) “because”?
A: The word “because” is considered as a conjunction that links together the
clauses “I rested” and “I was tired.”

1. Noun

This part of a speech refers to words that are used to name persons, things,
animals, places, ideas, or events. Nouns are the simplest among the 8 parts of
speech, which is why they are the first ones taught to students in primary
school.

Examples:
[Tom Hanks] is very versatile.
The square bracketed noun refers to a name of a person.

[Dogs] can be extremely cute.
In this example, the square bracketed word is considered a noun because it
names an animal.

It is my [birthday].
The word “birthday” is a noun which refers to an event.

1.1 Types of nouns
There are different types of nouns namely:
Proper
Proper nouns always start with a capital letter and refers to specific names
of persons, places, or things.
Examples: Volkswagen Beetle, Shakey’s Pizza, Game of Thrones

Common
Common nouns are the opposite of proper nouns. These are just generic names of
persons, things, or places.
Examples: car, pizza parlor, TV series

Concrete
This kind refers to nouns which you can perceive through your five senses.
Examples: folder, sand, board

Abstract
Unlike concrete nouns, abstract nouns are those which you can’t perceive
through your five senses.
Examples: happiness, grudge, bravery

Count
It refers to anything that is countable, and has a singular and plural form.
Examples:  kitten, video, ball

Mass
This is the opposite of count nouns. Mass nouns are also called non-countable
nouns, and they need to have “counters” to quantify them.
Examples of Counters: kilo, cup, meter
Examples of Mass Nouns: rice, flour, garter

Collective
Refers to a group of persons, animals, or things.
Example: faculty (group of teachers), class (group of students), pride (group
of lions)

This great list of nouns can help you explore more nouns.

[1] http://partofspeech.org/
