1. I am quaking in my boots.
2. I'm scared stiff.
3. It made me jump out of my skin.
4. It scared my living daylights out of me.
5. It made my hair stand on end.
6. You scared the shit out of me.

Note: 'out of' can be replaced with 'outta'.


Explanations

1. quake in one's boots.
Also, shake in one's boots ; quake or shake like a leaf. Tremble with fear, as
in The very thought of a hurricane blowing in makes me quake in my boots. Both
quake and shake here mean “tremble.” These idioms were preceded by the
alliterative phrase shake in one's shoes in the late 1800s. The idioms with leaf
allude to trembling leaves, as in He was shaking like a leaf when the exams were
handed back. A similar expression was used by Chaucer, who put it as quake like
an aspen leaf, a particularly apt comparison since aspen leaves have flattened
stems that cause the leaves to quiver in the gentlest breeze.

2. scare stiff
To react strongly to shock or surprise. Oh! You really scared me. I nearly
jumped out of my skin. Bill was so startled he almost jumped out of his skin.

3. jump out of one's skin
To react strongly to shock or surprise. 
Oh! You really scared me. I nearly jumped out of my skin. Bill was so startled
he almost jumped out of his skin.

4. living daylights out of someone.
The living daylights is an archaic idiom in English believed to be early 18th
century slang for somebody's eyes that subsequently figuratively referred to all
vital senses. The earliest recorded reference to this term comes from the 1752
novel Amelia by Henry Fielding, in which a character states his readiness to
physically assault a particular woman: "If the lady says another such words to
me ... I will darken her daylights."[1] The idiom is now generally used only as
part of a wider expression to express intensity in a negative manner, most
commonly in the form "to scare the living daylights out of someone" or "to beat
the living daylights out of someone." It has even taken on a far more humane,
even affectionate tone in the phrase "hug the living daylights" (out of someone,
passionately to the point of presumed asphyxiation).


4. make hair stand on end
To cause someone to be very frightened.
The horrible scream made my hair stand on end. The ghost story made our hair
stand on end.
